Add documentation for aggregate view of saved objects by tenant in Dashboards (#1786)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-plugin/multi-tenancy/mt-agg-view.md

---
layout: default

> title: Multi-tenancy aggregate view for saved objects

Reviewer: Should this be changed to aggregation view to be consistent? The feature flag is `opensearch_security.multitenancy.enable_aggregation_view `

Reviewer 2: I agree that we need to make the name of the feature consistent. "Aggregate view" is probably the right term. However, I see both "aggregate view for" and "aggregate view of" in the following text.

parent: OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy
nav_order: 60
---

> # Dashboards multi-tenancy aggregate view for saved objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy aggregate view for saved objects
```

> Aggregate view for saved objects is an experimental feature for OpenSearch 2.4. Therefore, we do not recommend enabling the feature for a production environment at this time. For updates on the progress of aggregate view for saved objects, or if you'd like to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/issues/2249) GitHub issue. For a more comprehensive view of the proposed future development of multi-tenancy, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869) issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aggregate view for saved objects is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.4. Therefore, we do not recommend enabling the feature in a production environment at this time. For updates on the progress of aggregate view for saved objects, or if you'd like to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/issues/2249) GitHub issue. For a more comprehensive view of the proposed future development of multi-tenancy, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869) issue.
```

{: .warning}

Aggregate view for saved objects allows a user who has access to multiple tenants to see all saved objects associated with those tenants in a single view without having to switch between tenants to do so. This includes both tenants created by the user and tenants shared with the user. Aggregate view introduces a Tenants column in the Saved Objects table that gives the user the option to filter by tenants and make visible their associated saved objects.

> Once a user identifies a saved object of interest, the user can then switch to that tenant to work with the object.

Reviewer 2: Global: Ensure that we're being consistent in our use of "you/your" versus "a user". I think "a user" is fine in the preceding paragraph, but I would probably try to use "you/your" from this point forward, as appropriate, because we're providing directions to the user.

> To access saved objects, expand the top menu and select **Management > Stack Management > Saved Objects**. The Saved Objects window opens. By default, all tenants the user has permissions to are dispalayed along with all saved objects associated with the tenants.

Reviewer 2: Should "permissions to" be "permissions for"?

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/agg-view-saved-objects.png" alt="Dashboards Saved Objects view with tenant object aggregation" width="700">

> As an experimental feature, Aggregate view of saved objects is kept behind a feature flag and must be enabled in the opensearch_dashboards.yml before the feature is made available. See [Enabling aggregate view](#enabling-aggregate-view-for-saved-objects) below for more on this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an experimental feature, aggregate view of saved objects is kept behind a feature flag and must be enabled in the opensearch_dashboards.yml before the feature is made available. See [Enabling aggregate view](#enabling-aggregate-view-for-saved-objects) for more information.
```

{: .note }

### Feature benefits

- Implementing an aggregate view of all saved objects on one screen allows a user to quickly locate an object of interest and determine which tenant is associated with it. Once the user locates an object, the user can select the appropriate tenant and work with the object.
- This feature also adds a Tenants column to the Saved Objects table, which allows users to filter the view by tenants and their associated saved objects.

### Plans for future development

> In subsequent releases, we plan to expand on the functionality of this feature to include the ability to perform actions directly from aggregate view and share items without having to first select a specific tenant. In the longer term, OpenSearch plans to evolve multi-tenancy so that it becomes a much more flexible tool for sharing objects among users and easier to do so by a more sophisticated way of assigning the roles and permissions that faciliate sharing. To learn more about the features being proposed for future releases, see the GitHub issue [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In subsequent releases, we plan to expand the functionality of this feature to include the ability to perform actions directly from aggregate view and share items without having to first select a specific tenant. In the longer term, OpenSearch plans to evolve multi-tenancy so that it becomes a much more flexible tool for sharing objects among users and uses a more sophisticated way of assigning the roles and permissions that facilitate sharing. To learn more about the features being proposed for future releases, see the GitHub issue [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869).
```

### Known limitations

> In this first experimental phase of development, there are some limitations that should be observed before enabling the feature and using it in a test environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this first experimental phase of development, there are some limitations that should be observed before enabling the feature and using it in a test environment:
```

* The feature can only be used in a new cluster. At this time, the feature is not suported by clusters already in use.
* Also, the feature should be used only in a test environment, not in production. 
* Finally, once the feature has been enabled and used in a test cluster, the feature cannot be disabled for the cluster. Disabling the feature once it has been used to work with tenants and saved objects can result in the loss of saved objects and have an impact on tenant-to-tenant functionality. 

These limitations will be addressed in upcoming releases.

## Enabling aggregate view for saved objects

> By default, the aggregate view in the Saved Objects table is disabled. To enable the feature, add the `opensearch_security.multitenancy.enable_aggregation_view` flag to the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and set it to `true`.

Reviewer 2: This should end in a colon if it's intended to introduce the element that follows.

`opensearch_security.multitenancy.enable_aggregation_view: true`

After enabling the feature you can start the new cluster and then launch Dashboards. 

## Working in aggregate view

> Select the drop-down arrow on the Tenants column to display the list of tenants available to the user. You can select multiple tenants while the menu is open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the dropdown arrow on the Tenants column to display the list of tenants available to the user. You can select multiple tenants while the menu is open.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/tenant_column.png" alt="Dashboards Saved Objects view with emphasis on Tenants column" width="700">

> Select anywhere outside the menu to collapse it. The Title column displays the saved objects corresponding to the selected tenants. The Tenants column displays the tenants associated with the saved objects. Also, the number of tenants selected for filtering is expressed in a red box on the drop-down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select anywhere outside the menu to collapse it. The Title column displays the saved objects corresponding to the selected tenants. The Tenants column displays the tenants associated with the saved objects. Also, the number of tenants selected for filtering is expressed in a red box on the dropdown.
```

> Select anywhere outside the menu to collapse it. The Title column displays the saved objects corresponding to the selected tenants. The Tenants column displays the tenants associated with the saved objects. Also, the number of tenants selected for filtering is expressed in a red box on the drop-down.

Reviewer 2: "shown" instead of "expressed"? Should "menu" follow "dropdown"?

> Select anywhere outside the menu to collapse it. The Title column displays the saved objects corresponding to the selected tenants. The Tenants column displays the tenants associated with the saved objects. Also, the number of tenants selected for filtering is expressed in a red box on the drop-down.

Reviewer: >The Title column displays the saved objects corresponding to the selected tenants.

This might need to be changed. The aggregation view displays the saved objects in all permitted tenants instead.

Author: I rewrote content around this as well as this sentence to clear things up. Good call.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/ten-filter-results.png" alt="Dashboards Saved Objects tenant filtering" width="700">

> Use the Type column to filter saved objects by type. The behavior for the drop-down is the same as the Tenants column drop-down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Type column to filter saved objects by type. The behavior of the dropdown is the same as the behavior of the Tenants column dropdown.
```

> Use the Type column to filter saved objects by type. The behavior for the drop-down is the same as the Tenants column drop-down.

Reviewer 2: Should "menu" follow both instances of "dropdown"?

### Selecting and working with a saved object

> 

Reviewer 2: We should include a brief sentence that introduces the list in order to separate the heading and the list. Something like "The following steps..." is fine.

1. After identifying a saved object that you would like to work with, note the tenant associated with the object in the Tenants column. 

> 1. In the top right corner of the window, open the user menu and select **Switch tenants**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the upper-right corner of the window, open the user menu and select **Switch tenants**.
```

> 1. In the top right corner of the window, open the user menu and select **Switch tenants**.

Reviewer 2: Use "upper right" and "lower right" instead of "top" and "bottom", and hyphenate as an adjective.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/switch_tenant.png" alt="Switching tenants in the user menu" width="500">

> 1. In the **Select your tenant** window, choose from either the Global, Private, or custom tenant options to specify the correct tenant. Select the **Confirm** button. The tenant becomes active and is displayed in the user menu.

Reviewer 2: Is "custom" intentionally lowercase?

Author: Uppercase just follows the UI. There are three radio buttons with labels when you open the "Select your tenant" window: Glogal, Private, Choose from custom. The Choose from custom option includes another dropdown menu that opens a list of available custom tenants.
"...choose either the Global or Private option, or one of the custom tenant options to..."

1. After the tenant is active, you can use the controls in the Actions column to work with saved objects associated with the tenant.
<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/actions.png" alt="Actions column controls" width="700">

> When a tenant is not active, you cannot use the Actions column controls to work with its associated objects. To work with those objects, follow the steps above to make the tenant active.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a tenant is not active, you cannot use the Actions column controls to work with its associated objects. To work with those objects, follow the preceding steps to make the tenant active.
```

> When a tenant is not active, you cannot use the Actions column controls to work with its associated objects. To work with those objects, follow the steps above to make the tenant active.

Reviewer 2: Try not to use "above" and "below", for accessibility.

## Working in aggregate view

Select the Tenant dropdown arrow to display the list of tenants available to the user. You can select multiple tenants while the menu is open. Each time you select a tenant in the menu, the list of saved objects is filtered by that tenant and any others with a check mark beside their name.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/tenant_column.png" alt="Dashboards Saved Objects view with emphasis on Tenants column" width="700">
   
After you finish specifying tenants, select anywhere outside the menu to collapse it. The Title column displays the names of the available saved objects. The Tenant column displays the tenants associated with the saved objects. Also, the number of tenants selected for filtering is shown in a red box beside the Tenant dropdown menu label.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/ten-filter-results.png" alt="Dashboards Saved Objects tenant filtering" width="700">

Use the Type dropdown menu to filter saved objects by type. The behavior of the Type dropdown menu is the same as the behavior of the Tenant dropdown menu.

### Selecting and working with a saved object

> After identifying a saved object that you would like to work with, follow these steps to access the object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After identifying a saved object that you would like to work with, follow these steps to access the object:
```

---
layout: default
title: Multi-tenancy aggregate view for saved objects
parent: OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy
nav_order: 60
---

# OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy aggregate view for saved objects

Aggregate view for saved objects is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.4. Therefore, we do not recommend enabling the feature in a production environment at this time. For updates on the progress of aggregate view for saved objects, or if you'd like to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/issues/2249) GitHub issue. For a more comprehensive view of the proposed future development of multi-tenancy, see the [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869) issue.
{: .warning}

> Aggregate view for saved objects allows a user who has access to multiple tenants to see all saved objects associated with those tenants in a single view without having to switch between tenants to do so. This includes both tenants created by the user and tenants shared with the user. Aggregate view introduces a Tenant column in the Saved Objects table that gives the user the option to filter by tenants and make visible their associated saved objects.

Reviewer 3: (just a suggestion)
refer to the user as "you"
maybe . .  .
"allows you to access multiple tenants and view them in a single view. . .
"this includes both tenants that you create, and that are shared with you"

Reviewer 2: Already addressed in editorial. Resolving.

Once you identify a saved object of interest, you can then switch to that tenant to work with the object.

> To access saved objects, expand the top menu and select **Management > Stack Management > Saved Objects**. The Saved Objects window opens. By default, all tenants the user has permissions for are displayed along with all saved objects associated with the tenants.

Reviewer 3: Couple of thoughts. . .not sure if this is identified in our style guide or not, but consider as suggestions. . . 
1. Use bold font for all UI elements
(for example, **Saved Objects** window) 

2. change "the user" to "you" 
something like this: 

"By default, all tenants that you have permissions to see are displayed. . ."

### Plans for future development

In subsequent releases, we plan to expand the functionality of this feature to include the ability to perform actions directly from aggregate view and share items without having to first select a specific tenant. In the longer term, OpenSearch plans to evolve multi-tenancy so that it becomes a much more flexible tool for sharing objects among users and employs a more sophisticated way of assigning the roles and permissions that facilitate sharing. To learn more about the features being proposed for future releases, see the GitHub issue [Dashboards object sharing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/1869).

### Known limitations

In this first experimental phase of development, there are some limitations that should be observed before enabling the feature and using it in a test environment:

* The feature can only be used in a new cluster. At this time, the feature is not suported by clusters already in use.
* Also, the feature should be used only in a test environment, not in production. 

> * Finally, once the feature has been enabled and used in a test cluster, the feature cannot be disabled for the cluster. Disabling the feature once it has been used to work with tenants and saved objects can result in the loss of saved objects and have an impact on tenant-to-tenant functionality. 

Reviewer 3: for conversational tone, use common contractions like "can't"

Reviewer 2: Either "cannot" or "can't" is fine.

Reviewer 3: oh, ok. I think we addressed this before, and we were going to update the style guide accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Right. Thus either is fine.

These limitations will be addressed in upcoming releases.

## Enabling aggregate view for saved objects

By default, the aggregate view in the Saved Objects table is disabled. To enable the feature, add the `opensearch_security.multitenancy.enable_aggregation_view` flag to the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and set it to `true`:

`opensearch_security.multitenancy.enable_aggregation_view: true`

After enabling the feature you can start the new cluster and then launch Dashboards. 

## Working in aggregate view

> Select the Tenant dropdown arrow to display the list of tenants available to the user. You can select multiple tenants while the menu is open. Each time you select a tenant in the menu, the list of saved objects is filtered by that tenant and any others with a check mark beside their name.

Reviewer 3: make any actionable UI element bold
the **Tenant** dropdown. . .
